well howdy there internet people it's bo
again
so today we are going to talk about uh
the predicted voter turnout
what we can learn from that and some
historical parallels that
well i find entertaining
okay so if you don't know they are
predicting
incredibly high turnout they're
predicting 150 million people vote
it's about 65 percent it's about 65
turnout for those overseas that that's
really high here
it's probably not in your country but
that's incredibly high in the us
the last time we had turnout like that
was in 1908
and the situation really wasn't that
different
on some levels um
there there were some differences such
as
the incumbent party and the republicans
hadn't gone after the racist vote yet
they hadn't executed the southern
strategy that didn't happen for another
half century or so um
but one candidate
he had a couple of failed presidential
bids before
like trump in 2000 but in 1908 he used a
different strategy
he didn't try to get the establishment
of the party behind him
he went after local people and he
campaigned against the elite
and he did it in a unique way he
embraced the technology of the time
they didn't have twitter but there were
new modes of travel
and he started stumping he changed the
way politicians politic
by doing this and along the way he
became very
concerned about his crowd sizes
opposing him you had kind of a boring
guy
who uh was picked by the establishment
of the party um
teddy roosevelt was incredibly popular
he
probably could have won a third term if
he wanted
but he didn't he went to taft
and was like hey we want you to run i
think you'd be the good candidate
at the convention of course taft wins
you know their their guy had blessed him
so to speak
taft picked up a couple of teddy's
progressive policies and ran on those
incredibly high voter turnout taft got
electoral votes that's good for today
back then you only needed 242 to win
he got 51 percent of the popular vote
whereas brian
the other guy i got 43.
the remaining percentages were made up
of third parties like the socialist
party and i want to say the prohibition
party could be wrong on that
might want to look that one up
not really that different and
because of this example a lot of experts
today
are suggesting that we're going to see a
landslide because of this and
that may be true people are enthusiastic
about their candidate
or enthusiastic about the other guy
leaving so they're getting out and
voting
that may be true that may be an element
of this but i would also suggest
that because of melon voting it's easier
if it's accessible maybe people will
engage in that civic activity
i would also point out that in a
representative democracy like we have in
the us
people should want high voter turnout
those who believe in the ideas
that america is supposed to embody the
idea that
the people are the leader they should
want high voter turnout
to oppose high voter turnout
to attempt to suppress the vote
is to undermine the very ideas
this country was founded on
it might be worth looking into
who's trying to suppress the vote now
who doesn't want people voting who's
filing lawsuits
who's trying to limit mail and voting
because those people not only do they
know
they don't have support of the people
they're actively undermining the ideas
in the constitution the ideas of america
for their own gain i don't know
that people like that should be in
office
because at the end of the day that's
what they're doing
there is a systemic effort by one party
to suppress the vote
it's something we should pay attention
to
because if they're willing to sell out
a pillar of what's supposed to make up
america
well they will certainly sell out you
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day